L3OUT - set of configurations that define connectivity to outside of ACI via routing

EGP has pcTag

What L3OUT do:
	1. Learn ext routes via routing protocols (or statics)
	2. Distribute learned ext routes (or statics) to other leaves
	3. Advertise ACI int routes (BD subnets) to outside ACI
	4. Advertise learned ext routes to other L3OUTs (Transit Routing)
	5. Allow traffic to arrive from or be sent to ext networks via L3OUT by using a contract

Why L3OUT is needed:
IN ACI BD/EPG, every IP address is learned as an endpoint with /32 (or /128).
Hence connecting a network device(router) that contains multiple subnets behind it to ACI via a BD/EPG
will end up with an EP that has a huge number of /32 IPs - not efficient.

L3OUT deployment summary:
	1. Root of L3OUT
		1.1. Select a routing protocol to deployment
		1.2. Select a VRF to deploy the routing protocol
		1.3. Select a L3OUT domain to define which range of VLANs and intefaces the L3OUT configurations are allowed to use
	2. Node profile
		2.1. Select leaves on which the routing protocol is deployed (border leaf switches)
		2.2. Configure the Router-ID for the routing protocol on leaves (ACI doesn't automatically assign it based on IP of switch)
	3. Interface profile 
		3.1. Configure leaf interfaces on which the routing protocol runs (interface type (SVI,routed-port,subif), interface ID, IP)
		3.2. Select a policy for the interface-level routing protocol parameters (hello interval for example)
	4. External EPG (L3OUT EPG)
		4.1. An empty external EPG is enough just to deploy a routing protocol and interface parameters
			 such as IP of SVI itself, and to establish routing protocol peering with neighbor router.
			 
Root components of L3OUT:
				VRF
				External routed domain
				Routing protocol

Export route control subnet - when its checkbox is selected (for certain network, added to L3OUT EPG subnets)
                              a route-map rule is created on the border leaf switches to redistribute the configured subnet
							  from other L3OUTs into the routing protocol for this L3OUT. Redistribution happens from MP-BGP
							  when the two L3OUTs are on different border leaf switches
							  mainly used for transit routing (adds external networks from other l3outs to routing protocol)
							  export subnet from ACI to the outside via L3OUT
				
SVI Encap scope ("Local" or "VRF") - feature that lets 2 L3OUTs on the same leaf to share same access encap VLAN
lets 2 routing protocols to run      by default or with SVI encap scope "local" each L3OUT allocates an 
on L3OUT							 L3OUT BD/SVI per access-encap VLAN. Hence, two L3OUTs with the same acc-enc VLAN cant coexist on the same border leaf

SVI auto-state - allows border leaf to bring an L3OUT SVI down when all its VLAN member ports are down									 

BGP route dampening - whenever route flaps, it receives a penalty of 1000, if certain number is summed like this
					  route is being marked as dampened it stops from being advertised, penalty number is reduced by half every half timer
					  
BD subnet advertisement methods:
		1. VIA L3OUT association to a BD (+ all control under each BD;- no info on which subnet is advertised in L3OUT itself)
		2. VIA an "export Route contorl subnet" scope under L3OUT EPG (+ L3OUT can decide which subnet to advertise;- hard to differentiate BD subnet and transit route subnet)
		3. VIA Route map/profile in export direction with an explicit prefix-list (+ L3OUT can decide which subnet to advertise;- complicated but flexible)

Interleak - leaking of external routes learned via L3OUT to MP-BGP (used for example to set metrics to certain border leaf L3OUTs)

VRF route leak - leaking of external routes learned via L3OUT to another VRF					  
					  
					  
